---
layout: single
title: "Docker Quick"
date: '2018-11-01'
last_modified_at: '2018-11-01'
comments: true
categories:
  - docker
tags:
  - [docker, container]
toc: true
toc_label: "On this page"
toc_icon: "list"
toc_sticky: true
---

# Slide 0
Containers consume less resources than virtual machines.

Docker is an open souce project for building, shipping and running programs. 
Docker simplifies the user experience with
- installing
- removing
- upgrading
- distributing (shipping software)
- running
software.

Container technology called containers.

Isolation features:
- each container runs as child process of the Docker engine
- with its own memory subspace
- with its own resources scoped by the container

# Slide 1 - Development
Easier to build continuos integration and continuos deployment pipelines.
Create more robust functional testing environments.
Development environments can be version controlled and updated when requirements changes.

# Slide 2 - Testing and production
Containers being tested hold the same software that will be go to production.
Higher production change confidence.
Tighter production change control.

# Slide 3 - Installation
Reduce the product installation guide to
    - single command
    - single portable dependency

# Slide 4 - Images
Used to package and distribute software.
Shippable unit in the Docker ecosystem.
Collection of files and metadata.
Docker Hib is a public registry where images can be found and downloaded.

Example: single command to start a container with Oracle Database.

# Slide 4.1 - Images layers

# Slide 5 - Container are not VMs
VMs
- use hardware virtualization  
- require significant resource overhead because they run a whole operating system
in addition to the software you want to use.
- huge startup delays make VM poor fit for reactive deployment scenarios.

Containers
- no hardware virtualization
- programs interface directly with the host's Linux Kernel
- no redundant operating system is required

Docker is not a virtaulization technology but uses container technology already 
built into the operating system kernel. Hide the complexity of working directly with 
the container software.
Containers are operating system feature.

# Slide 6 - What problems does Docker solve?
Installation:
- installed applications could not play together
- different dependencies may be required
- [] containers are isolated, images contain all you need
Removing:
- are all the dependencies really gone?
- [] software can be reliable removed with a single command
Running:
- energy required to figure out installing and running the software
- [] single command line to start a container along with the software

# Slide 7 - Docker provides an abstraction
Allow to simply work with complicated things.
Installing a software can be really complex
- operating system
- language interpreter
- software libraries
Installing a software with Docker is like any other one.
The way a crane picks up a container is always the same.

# Slide 8 - Development
Avoid installation of any server: database and application.
Development environment up with one command.
The environment is the same for testing and production.
Upgrade servers transparently, image is distributed across the team member,
not anymore many single installation of the development environment
- lot of time lost by each developer
- operating system are not always the same hence installation issues
- dependency might be different
- frustration when the installation process fails
- easier to replicate a platform

# Slide 9 - Support team
Dont need to know details about installing software.
Multiple platforms may be required w.r.t. the customer (different server versions).
Deal with multiple version of the same software w.r.t. the customer hence need
to switch often among versions.
Software can come packed with the all the servers: single line command to replicate have the 
software up and running.

# Slide 10 - Continuos integration
Same enviroment used everywhere helps to reduce:
- configuration efforts
- configuration errors
- testing the software against an environment that is not the production one
- no need to configure all the agents

# Slide 11 - Riskpro environment installation
- Oracle and MSSQL in different versions
- WildFly, JBOSS, WAS, WLP, Weblogic in different versions
- Linux and Windows
- Oracle JVM, IBM J9, OpenJDK(?)

# Slide 12 - Commond problems
- Issues on a specific combination of database and app server.
- Installation of multiple versions of the same app server.
- Installation of multiple versions of the same database server is not allowed.
- Installation of multiple version of the Java interpreter.
- Difficult, tedious and time consuming when needed to switch and replicate a server combination.
- Upgrade of the servers on the CI take a lot of time.

# Slide 13 - Riskpro Docker Commands
Oracle Database container
- docker run

# Slide 12 - Work in progress
- Improve the installation process to be more flexible
    - setup database process without any local installation of the database
- Make the installation of the software transparent: container or local servers

# Slide 13 - Cons of Docker